hey guys what's up welcome back to my
channel today we are doing something fun
and different we're doing a little game
together
and i saw this game it's called
underrated or overrated
first from garyvee on his instagram it
was really funny it was really
educational entertaining and then i saw
brett contreras do a glute specific one
so i thought we should do a petite woman
women's health
specific underrated slash overrated game
and i asked you guys on instagram last
week all the things that you guys wanted
me to rate so we have a really really
good list
and i have kate with me here to read
them off so
let's jump into it macro tracking macro
tracking
i would say for petite women underrated
mostly that's because well a lot of
petite women
focus on calorie tracking calorie
tracking is
totally overrated for petite women i
feel like so many petite women myself
included have gone online and looked for
calorie calculators
and tried to calculate how many calories
they should be eating and of course you
guys
have seen my stuff it gives petite women
crazy low numbers like 1200 calories or
less in order to lose fat
so it's a calorie counting overrated but
macronutrient tracking and counting
which is when you look at the
composition of those calories the
breakdown into protein
fats and carbohydrates that composition
of your nutrition is really important
and really underrated
just from an educational tool now i'm
not saying this is for all petite women
if you have a history of disorder eating
or
tracking anything triggers you it's
probably not the best choice
but as just like keeping a three-day
food journal exercise and learning about
the composition of your diet
it can be a very powerful tool for
petite women and a lot of times petite
women will learn
they're not eating enough protein
they're way overeating in their fats
usually and
carbs just depends on lifestyle factors
and goals and activity levels but
it can be really eye-opening so i'm
going to say definitely underrated
underrated as a educational tool pilates
pilates all of my really good trainer
friends pilates instructor friends are
going to be really upset at me saying
this
but again this is specifically for
petite women pilates
is overrated for petites who are looking
to lose fat and tone up
now is pilates bad for you absolutely
not
i love pilates i have a doctor friend
who got me really interested in it
last year before we experienced the
shutdown it is great
for working on your stabilizing muscles
for building up your core strength
however if you're a petite woman who has
spent many years doing pilates you'll
probably notice it's not quite
enough to change your body composition
okay so if you're looking if you're a
petite woman looking for
visible changes in body composition less
fat more muscle
pilates is just going to be an extra
thing that you do it's not going to be
the main
core principle program that's going to
drive those results for you
lululemon lululemon for petite women
way overrated i don't know if you guys
have been in the store but
nothing fits us it's like really really
really long
leggings i will say though they're they
do have that
one length it's like the 25 inch prop
i believe that fits me right at ankle
length which is great so maybe i should
maybe i don't know it's really expensive
i'm just gonna say overrated i think you
can get great leggings
for less money that fit better for the
female body
so we're going with that machines at the
gym machines at the gym
completely overrated for petite women
now a lot of
machines have adjustable settings on
them however
they have a limit they're not going to
scale probably
lower than someone who's 5'3 around
there
for example a leg press or a lat
pull-down machine that's why we see so
many names and jokes on the internet of
short girls trying to use these machines
they can put your body in weird
stressful joint angles because they're
not
scaling to your body well they can be
dangerous for that reason
or just simply ineffective overall it's
better to focus on
free weights dumbbell training um
barbell training
that type of stuff over just machines
and another reason why is because they
there is a time and a place for machines
and and i use them but i'm just saying
for petite women slightly overrated just
because they're not really
they don't really fit us as well
strength training strength training
highly highly highly underrated for
petite women i can't tell you how many
times
petite women come to me and say that
they've tried pilates orange theory
hit classes boot camp style things like
beach body
um and they can't lose weight but they
haven't tried
actual strength training strength
training is so important for changing
your
body composition if that's your goals
petite woman it will not make you bulky
to work on your strength it will help
you build muscle which will help you
get that tone and over time help improve
your metabolism and help you burn fat
at rest just from having more muscle in
your body burning more calories
to maintain that muscle so i'd say a lot
of petite women are afraid of it because
they're worried they're going to get
like a crossfit body or look really
shredded and bulky and you know
short but that's not what happens when
you apply strength training
uh correctly with a really good
nutrition program as well so i'd say
highly underrated for petites
traditional push-pull
leg split workout programs yeah so
body split programs versus like a total
body program i'd say
the body split programs for petite women
again
i'm not speaking to for the general
public it's going to
depend on your goals and a lot of other
things but for petites
i'd say body splits are overrated
for beginners underrated overrated for
beginners
zero to three or five years of lifting
we'll call beginner
and properly rated for intermediate to
advanced petite women
the reason why i say this is because
when we go on instagram
we see a lot of body split programs we
see like people doing just
arm day just chest day and they're
usually really advanced these are like
really fit people who have been lifting
for like 20 years
maybe not long but you get it these
types of programs are great
if you really want to put on muscle
you're not so
interested in working on your
cardiovascular health or
burning fat say you already are happy
with your body composition you're
looking to maintain or build that muscle
however
total body workouts are much better in
my opinion
for the untrained petite woman
who's looking to both burn fat and build
muscle at the same time
and the reason why is because total body
workouts first of all
you get the best bang for your buck if
you're a busy woman like most of us are
in the short go again community
you will not have to do a lifting
session and then a separate cardio
session because it'll be combined into
one workout the second reason is
you can work on building muscle and get
your heart rate up and the combination
of the total body exercises all together
in one
workout um result in a higher metabolic
effect overall
and petite women have slightly slower
metabolisms we eat less food in a day
we're smaller
so anything we can do to get that nice
little metabolic boost build some muscle
get our heart rate up a bit i think that
is a more effective approach
that's how i train petite women and they
get amazing results focusing more on the
total body
type of workout programs from for the
first zero to five ish years of their
strength training experience cardio
cardio
severely overrated for petite women
i don't think cardio is a bad thing but
the problem is that when we want to lose
fat we just automatically in our brains
think that cardio is what we should do
to to do
to achieve the fat loss cardio has a
place in any every program
both for your heart health and to
supplement
you know your activity levels make sure
that you
are are training in a way that supports
your locals
but it's not the main reason
and way to lose fat as a petite woman
it's not going to be the main driver of
your fat loss you need
muscle or else hate to use this term i
never use this term in real life but
just
to illustrate if you just did cardio and
didn't lift weights you would feel that
skinny fat whey you could feel dragged
down it slows your metabolism more if
you don't have muscle and you just focus
on
losing fat and muscle from doing cardio
you're not going to end up with that
powerful toned strong lean physique that
you're looking for as petite so i'd say
cardio is just severely overrated and a
lot of us already know that because we
spent years like trying to achieve
results through cardio alone and it just
doesn't do it
a good tailor a good tailor for petite
women
um you know i wouldn't know because i'm
too lazy to go to the tailor honestly i
never go to the tailor
i have to buy something and it has to
fit me
i don't have time i can't be bothered um
but
i don't know i guess i would say they
are properly rated there's like clearly
a need for them
but i'm not using one currently
10k steps a day okay this is great
ten thousand steps a day in case you
didn't know is a random number that they
came up with
i think about 100 years ago now in a
study
they literally just pulled it out of
their butts they're like 10 000 steps a
day is what a human being should walk
now in reality we don't know if that's
if that's the perfect number of steps
you need to walk in a day so i would
rather say i'd say 10k steps a day
overrated find out what works for you
don't aim for a generic number
look at where you're starting as petite
how many steps day are you walking
and depending on your goals maybe you
increase it by a thousand steps
per day over the course of the week now
you've had an extra seven thousand sales
per day
that's a lot so you don't need to go
from zero to ten thousand you can just
slowly incrementally increase it
depending on
your activity goals your fat loss goals
all that so i just say random numbers
like 10k
definitely overrated seven eights
leggings
seven eighths leggings four petite women
properly rated
properly rated that's all i can say
acai bowls acai bowls
very overrated i do eat an acai bowl
like every night
right now but i would say overrated
because
some of these bowls that you order when
you go out to
like trendy breakfast spots they tend to
just be loaded with carbs
just literally just sugar and carbs like
cacao nibs are great there's lots of
antioxidants and
there's lots of uh micronutrients in
acai and these superfoods and these buzz
words you hear but when it comes down to
it they're usually
heavy in carbs and carbs are not bad but
if it's not balanced by a protein and
some healthy fats
then you're going to just burn through
the carbs very quickly
and be very very hungry shortly after so
if you're going to get a nice
acai bowl ask them if they can add a
protein powder scoop to it
make sure there's some healthy fats in
there make sure you know coconut oil
whatever you prefer some nuts just to
make it more of like a pff balanced meal
protein fats
and fibrous carbs all right you guys i
hope you enjoyed
this little mini sewed game of overrated
versus
versus underrated let me know what you
think in the comments and
if you want to do a new another round
let me know what
you would want to see rated or what we
should do it on next
and yeah i hope you guys enjoyed this
and have a great
rest of your day bye
[Music]
you